[Music]
so this smartwatch has one really
interesting trick up its sleeve that I
haven't seen in any other and that
honestly I don't think we're ever going
to see again so at this point we know
what a smartwatch is already right this
is a stable mature category they deliver
mostly across the board on all the same
functions and aside from the one crazy
trick this one is no exception this is
the OnePlus Watch 2 3 years after the
original OnePlus watch and it costs 300
bucks so for the $300 you're spending
you're getting a pretty nice circular
wash design it comes in this black or
silver stainless steel body and a
sapphire coverglass over a 1.4 in 60 HZ
AMOLED display design-wise You could
argue it takes cues from maybe the
OnePlus 11 or the OnePlus 12 with the
way the camera bump is melted into the
side rail of the phone they've done a
similar thing here with the buttons on
the side of the watch so there's a
circular button at the top and this
rectangular button at the bottom and I
kind of like it's a nice shape it's got
this little subtle classy variation of
just a pure Circle and then the back
looks pretty standard too you got the
four pins at the top those are for
charging and it has all the sensors
you'd expect for Smartwatch in the
middle Optical heart rate sensor pulse
oximeter for blood oxygen and of course
it still has the interchangeable bands
same as gen 1 and the whole thing is
actually both ip68 dust and water
resistant and reaches a US military
standard for durability basically means
it can also withstand extreme
temperature and moisture and shock among
other things it's not too heavy it's
built pretty well this display goes up
to 1,000 nits Peak brightness so it
looks good it's built well across the
board nice so what's the catch what's
the weird twist well at the beginning I
mentioned like we already kind of know
what a smartwatch is which is a tiny
computer on your wrist with a tiny
screen and a tiny battery and that's
fine like they all tend to have pretty
short battery lives just because they're
so small and so you kind of just charge
them every day and that's the way it is
like the main competitors here are the
Apple watch which is 18 hours although
that's not the most direct competitor
because that's the iPhone but the Galaxy
watch one of the best 40 hours of
battery and the pixel watch the newest
one 24 hours of battery life but this
one OnePlus is claiming 100
hours 100h hour battery life in Smart
Mode which is not the battery saving
mode it's actually the default mode out
the box 100 hours so 96 hours is 4 days
I feel like you know 100 sounds cooler
so they just went with 100 but 4 days of
battery sounds a lot less inconvenient
so you know I had to put that to the
test so for the past four straight days
I've been that guy walking around with
both an Apple Watch Ultra which claims
36 hours of normal use and this thing
doing all the same stuff with both
watches on getting notifications doing
workouts just poking around the UI and
by the end I was actually very impressed
with both so the $800 Apple watch Ultra
actually overperformed the 36 claimed
hours for me by hour 56 it was about
ready to die now meanwhile the OnePlus
watch had about 15% left now you're
probably thinking wait that's not even
close to 100 hours that's like 50
something but OnePlus told me that if
you turn the always on display off
that's good for two more days of battery
life it's actually off by default I
turned it on for this test but that
would get you well over the 100 hour
mark to be fair that's also probably
true about the Apple watch Ultra now one
detail to consider that I think actually
mattered for this particular test I've
been wearing hoodies a lot cuz it's that
type of weather and so even with the
sleeves on this Chevron hoodie which
I'll link it below because you probably
want to check it out uh it covers the
watch and so when you cover the watch
with your sleeve it thinks it's in the
dark cuz the light sensors are covered
so it turns the brightness way down on
the watch and so I think that's why it
outperform formed the battery numbers
that it's claiming is cuz I had a sleeve
over it a lot of the times and the
brightness was low but even still this
$300 watch outperformed this $800
Smartwatch just in terms of battery now
here's the thing the way that they're
achieving this battery life is I think
more interesting than the battery life
itself this is the twist see most
SmartWatches have a chip inside
Computing everything with some high
powerered cores and some high efficiency
cores to balance out power and Battery
life this watch has two entirely
separate processors and two different
operating systems running for each of
them so there's a high-powered
Snapdragon W5 inside that's powering
weos 4 and that only lights up for
things connected to that then there's
also a bees 2700 chip that is always on
and runs RT and they both share the same
32 gigs of Base storage and 2 gigs of
RAM so were OS kicks on for the more
intensive tasks like Maps or music
playback but the rtos that's always on
is for those basic low power tasks heart
rate monitoring phone calls
notifications background stuff it's like
a hybrid car it's really interesting
like and a fully electric car you guys
already know has all the benefits of
being really responsive but not the best
range but a gas car has a ton of range
just not as responsive as fully electric
so if you get a hybrid best of the bo
worlds responsive and range and this
watch it's a hybrid with the best of
both worlds responsiveness and range so
I've been pretty impressed you know
using this thing it's responsive it has
a ton of watch faces there's a lot of
custom workouts which look very familiar
with tracking and everything that still
sends all the data to the o health app
in plenty of detail for me I do still
wish now shoveling snow was a workout
type but that's another story but you
know these here are regular
weightlifting work workouts and also can
I say I really like that it is hold to
end the workout not tap to end so it's
way harder to accidentally stop a
workout great idea also another weird
Quirk this button here has a crown that
rotates but that rotation doesn't
actually do anything it doesn't change
the volume it doesn't scroll up or down
in anything it does nothing it's not
connected to anything it just freely
spins apparently that's literally just
to make it more durable upon impact
doesn't serve any function also it does
have this weird hitch that it it hasn't
really gotten any less annoying which is
if I get a notification I feel the buzz
on my wrist then I lift up my wrist and
it takes like a full two seconds to show
me the notification I just got not that
two seconds is a disaster it's not a ton
of time but it's longer than you expect
and it kind of annoys me to have to wait
in comparison to other watches which
will just show me the notification right
away and I feel like you can actually
see the moment that it fires up the
Snapdragon W5 and where OS kind of snaps
on right in front of you before it shows
you that notification it's very odd but
here's the other Twist on top of
everything we've already talked about I
don't think this dual chip system is all
of the magic creating this great battery
life because this watch also has a 500
mah hour battery now 500 mah hours
doesn't sound like a lot but here's the
sizes of other SmartWatches in
competition with this and their battery
sizes and how long they last and it's
it's a little bigger than you'd expect
now if if I gave the pixel Watch 2 which
also has a Snapdragon W5 by the way if I
gave the pixel Watch 2 a 500 mah battery
do we think it would last 50 hours I
don't know but there you go honestly at
the end of the day I just came away from
this mostly just impressed that they
actually kept the price of this watch so
low because two chips and two os's and
the work that goes into that I don't
know to me that just sounds expensive
and it's really not missing anything
else too drastic I think it's
competitive in a lot of good ways at 300
bucks so I think the clear positives
would be a nice design really classy
looking design nice display dual
frequency GPS so that's for better
accuracy and then of course really good
battery life the four days we talked
about is awesome but if you put on power
saver mode it's up to 12 days of battery
life now this is going to disable a lot
of the we OS things so it's just basic
stuff exercises heart rate monitoring
but you could get it to really last a
week if you wanted too but then the
weaknesses are definitely the delay in
checking your notifications the haptics
also aren't that nice and there's no
iPhone compatibility but you already
knew that uh but I would also say the
charger is uh not that cool honestly
it's kind of clunky I mean it works
perfectly fine don't get me wrong but
it's just like a big plastic block with
pins and magnets in it but it'll get you
a full day's charge in 10 minutes and a
full charge in an hour so that's
acceptable but for 300 bucks I'd say
OnePlus has redeemed itself from its
previous efforts in SmartWatches it's
pretty good like in a world of
Smartwatch gimmicks there's the one with
earbuds inside there's the one for
Fitness there's the one for the iPhone
maybe this is the one with the hybrid
system and pretty good battery life
maybe that's enough for you let me know
in the comments below either way that's
been it thanks for watching catch you in
the next one peace